Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
about typedef in C.
So using typedef we can create a new name for a data type
So the syntax of type def is the key word
type followed by the data type like int char float
or double followed by the new name you want for
that datatype and finally a semi colon
See an example we have typedef int name
So from now we can use name instead of int
so we can declare integer variables i,j,k like this
name i,j,k
Here the compiler will convert it into int i,j,k
See another example
Typedef int *iptr
So from now to create integer Pointer we can
use the name iptr
So here we have iptr p,q
and the compiler will convert it into
int *p,*q
now
What is the difference between #define and typedef?
#define is interpreted by the pre processor whereas typedef
is interpreted by the compiler. #define works for
both types and values
Example
#define int i. #define size 50 but typedef
only works for types
Example
Typedif int num using typedef
we cannot define values
Example
Type def size 50 and another important difference is that in
case of #define there is normal text substitution
Here we can see that
#define iptr int*
so wherever iptr is encountered the pre processor substitute it with
int *
So here the variable P becomes integer pointer type
and Q becomes integer type
But in case of typedef, it works beyond the
normal text substitution and the compiler converts this statement into
int *p,*q and here both
p and
Q becomes integer pointer type so let us see
the benefits of typedef
One main benefit is better documentation
Here we have a code and here whenever we want
to declare a new struct variable we need to use
whole struct point again and again
But had we used typedef here, it would have
been a lot easier
See we have created a new name for struct point
using typedef here the new name is point_t
so we can use point_t instead of using struct
point
Now we can also use typedef while declaring the
structure like this and other important benefit is using typedef
If we can get easy portable code. assume that the current
machine architecture supports the type int and we have finished
the code with type int and suppose we want to
change the machine architecture to the newer version which supports
the type long int. here
We need to change the type int into long int
throughout the programme
So what can we do? One thing that we can
do is we can manually change all occurrence of
int with long int
But if the code base is very large like this
It is extremely difficult to change it
So what is the solution? We can just create a
new name for int using typedef like typedef int
number and write the code with the new name
number
And now if we want to change the datatype for
any reason we can easily change it in the typedef
rather than the whole code base
We can just change the typedef statement type int
is changed to type long int and it will be changed
in the whole programme
So that's all and thank you for watching this video